README.rst, before:

********
Molecule
********

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule
   :alt: PyPI Package

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/molecule/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://molecule.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation Status

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/rgreinho/molecule.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/rgreinho/molecule
   :alt: Build Status

Molecule is designed to aid in the development and testing of
`Ansible`_ roles including support for multiple instances,
operating system distributions, virtualization providers and test frameworks.

It leverages `Vagrant`_, `Docker`_, and `OpenStack`_ to manage virtual
machines/containers, with support for multiple Vagrant providers (currently
`VirtualBox`_, `Parallels`_, `VMware Fusion`_, and `Libvirt`_).  Molecule
supports `Serverspec`_, `Testinfra`_, or `Goss`_ (beta) to run tests.  Molecule
uses an `Ansible`_ `playbook`_ (``playbook.yml``), to execute the `role`_ and
its tests.

.. _`Test Kitchen`: http://kitchen.ci
.. _`playbook`: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks.html
.. _`role`: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_roles.html

Ansible Support
===============

* 1.9.6 - Limited (`Docker`_ driver not-supported by `Ansible`_)
* 2.0.2.0 - Supported
* 2.1.1.0 - Supported

Dependencies
============

Molecule relies on several outside packages and programs to function.

* `Ansible`_

Verifier
--------

* `Goss`_
* `Serverspec`_
* `Testinfra`_ (default)

Driver
------

* `Docker`_
* `Openstack`_
* `Vagrant`_ (default)

Provider
--------

* `Libvirt`_
* `VirtualBox`_ (default)
* `VMware Fusion`_
* `Parallels`_

.. _`Ansible`: https://docs.ansible.com
.. _`Docker`: https://www.docker.com
.. _`Goss`: https://github.com/aelsabbahy/goss
.. _`Libvirt`: http://libvirt.org
.. _`OpenStack`: https://www.openstack.org
.. _`Parallels`: http://www.parallels.com
.. _`Serverspec`: http://serverspec.org
.. _`Testinfra`: http://testinfra.readthedocs.org
.. _`Vagrant`: http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2
.. _`VirtualBox`: https://www.virtualbox.org
.. _`VMware Fusion`: http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion.html

Quick Start
===========

Install molecule using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pip install ansible
  $ pip install molecule

Create a new role with the docker driver:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ molecule init --role foo --driver docker
  --> Initializing role foo...
  Successfully initialized new role in ./foo


Or add molecule to an existing role:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd foo
  $ molecule init --driver docker
  --> Initializing molecule in current directory...
  Successfully initialized new role in /private/tmp

Update the role with needed functionality and tests.  Now test it:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd foo
  $ molecule test
  --> Destroying instances ...
  --> Checking playbooks syntax ...

  playbook: playbook.yml
  --> Creating instances ...
  --> Creating Ansible compatible image of ubuntu:latest ...
  --> Creating Ansible compatible image of ubuntu:latest ...
  Creating container foo-01 with base image ubuntu:latest ...
  Container created.
  Creating container foo-02 with base image ubuntu:latest ...
  Container created.
  --> Starting Ansible Run ...

  PLAY [all] *********************************************************************

  TASK [setup] *******************************************************************
  ok: [foo-01]
  ok: [foo-02]

  PLAY RECAP *********************************************************************
  foo-01                     : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0
  foo-02                     : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0

  --> Idempotence test in progress (can take a few minutes)...
  --> Starting Ansible Run ...
  Idempotence test passed.
  --> Executing ansible-lint.
  --> Executing flake8 on \*.py files found in tests/.
  --> Executing testinfra tests found in tests/.
  ============================= test session starts ==============================
  platform darwin -- Python 2.7.11, pytest-2.9.2, py-1.4.31, pluggy-0.3.1
  rootdir: /private/tmp/foo/tests, inifile:
  plugins: xdist-1.14, testinfra-1.4.1
  collected 2 itemss

  tests/test_default.py ..

  =========================== 2 passed in 1.52 seconds ===========================
  --> Destroying instances ...
  Stopping container foo-01 ...
  Removed container foo-01.
  Stopping container foo-02 ...
  Removed container foo-02.

Documentation
=============

http://molecule.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

License
=======

MIT

The logo is licensed under the `Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`_.  If you have some other use in mind, contact us.

.. _`Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/

Commit message:

Removed the driver requirements (#499)
* Removed the driver requirements

Now must install the appropriate python package based on the
driver used.  Opted not to add try catch around the imports,
since this is called out in the docs, and fairly obvious.
The requirements are also pinned in test-requirements so we
can test against a specific known version.

Fixes: #289

* Updated CHANGELOG

* Updated import error handling per review

* Further update from peer review

* Inlined imports

README.rst, after:

********
Molecule
********

.. image:: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule.svg
   :target: https://badge.fury.io/py/molecule
   :alt: PyPI Package

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/molecule/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://molecule.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
   :alt: Documentation Status

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/rgreinho/molecule.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/rgreinho/molecule
   :alt: Build Status

Molecule is designed to aid in the development and testing of
`Ansible`_ roles including support for multiple instances,
operating system distributions, virtualization providers and test frameworks.

It leverages `Vagrant`_, `Docker`_, and `OpenStack`_ to manage virtual
machines/containers, with support for multiple Vagrant providers (currently
`VirtualBox`_, `Parallels`_, `VMware Fusion`_, and `Libvirt`_).  Molecule
supports `Serverspec`_, `Testinfra`_, or `Goss`_ (beta) to run tests.  Molecule
uses an `Ansible`_ `playbook`_ (``playbook.yml``), to execute the `role`_ and
its tests.

.. _`Test Kitchen`: http://kitchen.ci
.. _`playbook`: https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks.html
.. _`role`: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/playbooks_roles.html

Ansible Support
===============

* 1.9.6 - Limited (`Docker`_ driver not-supported by `Ansible`_)
* 2.0.2.0 - Supported
* 2.1.1.0 - Supported

Dependencies
============

Molecule relies on several outside packages and programs to function.

* `Ansible`_

Verifier
--------

* `Goss`_
* `Serverspec`_
* `Testinfra`_ (default)

Driver
------

* `Docker`_
* `Openstack`_
* `Vagrant`_ (default)

Provider
--------

* `Libvirt`_
* `VirtualBox`_ (default)
* `VMware Fusion`_
* `Parallels`_

.. _`Ansible`: https://docs.ansible.com
.. _`Docker`: https://www.docker.com
.. _`Goss`: https://github.com/aelsabbahy/goss
.. _`Libvirt`: http://libvirt.org
.. _`OpenStack`: https://www.openstack.org
.. _`Parallels`: http://www.parallels.com
.. _`Serverspec`: http://serverspec.org
.. _`Testinfra`: http://testinfra.readthedocs.org
.. _`Vagrant`: http://docs.vagrantup.com/v2
.. _`VirtualBox`: https://www.virtualbox.org
.. _`VMware Fusion`: http://www.vmware.com/products/fusion.html

Quick Start
===========

.. important::

  `Ansible`_ and the driver's python package require installation.

Install molecule using pip:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ pip install ansible
  $ pip install docker-py
  $ pip install molecule

Create a new role with the docker driver:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ molecule init --role foo --driver docker
  --> Initializing role foo...
  Successfully initialized new role in ./foo


Or add molecule to an existing role:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd foo
  $ molecule init --driver docker
  --> Initializing molecule in current directory...
  Successfully initialized new role in /private/tmp

Update the role with needed functionality and tests.  Now test it:

.. code-block:: bash

  $ cd foo
  $ molecule test
  --> Destroying instances ...
  --> Checking playbooks syntax ...

  playbook: playbook.yml
  --> Creating instances ...
  --> Creating Ansible compatible image of ubuntu:latest ...
  --> Creating Ansible compatible image of ubuntu:latest ...
  Creating container foo-01 with base image ubuntu:latest ...
  Container created.
  Creating container foo-02 with base image ubuntu:latest ...
  Container created.
  --> Starting Ansible Run ...

  PLAY [all] *********************************************************************

  TASK [setup] *******************************************************************
  ok: [foo-01]
  ok: [foo-02]

  PLAY RECAP *********************************************************************
  foo-01                     : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0
  foo-02                     : ok=1    changed=0    unreachable=0    failed=0

  --> Idempotence test in progress (can take a few minutes)...
  --> Starting Ansible Run ...
  Idempotence test passed.
  --> Executing ansible-lint.
  --> Executing flake8 on \*.py files found in tests/.
  --> Executing testinfra tests found in tests/.
  ============================= test session starts ==============================
  platform darwin -- Python 2.7.11, pytest-2.9.2, py-1.4.31, pluggy-0.3.1
  rootdir: /private/tmp/foo/tests, inifile:
  plugins: xdist-1.14, testinfra-1.4.1
  collected 2 itemss

  tests/test_default.py ..

  =========================== 2 passed in 1.52 seconds ===========================
  --> Destroying instances ...
  Stopping container foo-01 ...
  Removed container foo-01.
  Stopping container foo-02 ...
  Removed container foo-02.

Documentation
=============

http://molecule.readthedocs.org/en/latest/

License
=======

MIT

The logo is licensed under the `Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`_.  If you have some other use in mind, contact us.

.. _`Creative Commons NoDerivatives 4.0 License`: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nd/4.0/
