doc/source/ci.rst, before:

Continuous integration
----------------------

Travis CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Travis`_ is a CI platform, which can be used to test Ansible roles.

A ``.travis.yml`` testing a role named foo1 with the Docker driver.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - pip install molecule
      # - pip install required driver (e.g. docker, python-vagrant, shade, boto, apache-libcloud)
    script:
      - molecule test

A ``.travis.yml`` using `Tox`_ as described below.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - pip install tox-travis
    script:
      - tox

Gitlab CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Gitlab`_ includes its own CI. Pipelines are usually defined in a ``.gitlab-ci.yml`` file in the top folder of a repository, to be ran on Gitlab Runners.

Here is an example setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule. User-level pip is cached and so is the virtual environment to save time. And this is run over a runner tagged `pip36` and `docker`, because its a minimal CentOS 7 VM installed with pip36 from IUS repository and docker.


.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    stages:
      - test

    variables:
      PIP_CACHE_DIR: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/.pip"

    cache:
      paths:
        - .pip/
        - virtenv/

    before_script:
      - pip3.6 install virtualenv
      - virtualenv virtenv
      - source virtenv/bin/activate

    molecule:
      stage: test
      tags:
        - pip36
        - docker
      script:
        - docker -v
        - python -V
        - pip install ansible molecule docker
        - ansible --version
        - molecule --version
        - molecule test

Jenkins Pipeline
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Jenkins`_ projects can also be defined in a file, by default named `Jenkinsfile` in the top folder of a repository. Two syntax are available, Declarative and Scripted. Here is an example using the declarative syntax, setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {

      agent {
        // Node setup : minimal centos7, plugged into Jenkins, and
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo yum -y install https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
        // sudo yum -y install python36u python36u-pip python36u-devel git curl gcc
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo curl -fsSL get.docker.com | bash
        label 'Molecule_Slave'
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Get latest code') {
          steps {
            checkout scm
          }
        }

        stage ('Setup Python virtual environment') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              export HTTP_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              export HTTPS_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              pip3.6 install virtualenv
              virtualenv virtenv
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              pip install --upgrade ansible molecule docker
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              molecule test
            '''
          }
        }

      }

    }



Tox
^^^

`Tox`_ is a generic virtualenv management, and test command line tool.  `Tox`_
can be used in conjunction with `Factors`_ and Molecule, to perform scenario
tests.

To test the role against multiple versions of Ansible.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 1.8
    envlist = py{27}-ansible{20,21,22}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    passenv = *
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible20: ansible==2.0.2.0
        ansible21: ansible==2.1.2.0
        ansible22: ansible==2.2.0.0
    commands =
        molecule test

To view the factor generated tox environments.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ tox -l
    py27-ansible20
    py27-ansible21
    py27-ansible22

If using the `--parallel functionality`_ of Tox (version 3.7 onwards), Molecule
must be made aware of the parallel testing by setting a
``MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`` environment variable per environment.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 3.7
    envlist = py{27}_ansible{23,24}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible23: ansible==2.3
        ansible24: ansible==2.4
    commands =
        molecule test
    setenv =
        MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY={envname}

If you are utilizing the Openstack driver you will have to make sure that your
``envname`` variable does not contain any invalid characters, particularly
``-``.

You also must include the ``MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`` variable in the
``molecule.yml`` configuration file.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    dependency:
      name: galaxy
    driver:
      name: docker
    lint:
      name: yamllint
    platforms:
      - name: instance1-$MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY
        image: mariadb
      - name: instance2-$MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY
        image: retr0h/centos7-systemd-ansible:latest
        privileged: True
        command: /usr/sbin/init
    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      lint:
        name: ansible-lint
    scenario:
      name: default
    verifier:
      name: testinfra
      lint:
        name: flake8

.. _`Factors`: http://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#factors-and-factor-conditional-settings
.. _`Travis`: https://travis-ci.org/
.. _`Jenkins`: https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile
.. _`Gitlab`: https://gitlab.com
.. _`Tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _`--parallel functionality`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#cmdoption-tox-p

Commit message:

doc: avoid MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY with tox (#1716)
If an `MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY` environment variable is defined
before `molecule` startup, it will be used to compute the
`ephemeral_directory` variable[1].

In config, `ephemeral_directory` is used to overwrite
`MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`[2].

As a result:
- `MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY` is different
- it can content a /, which is not a good fit in a docker or VM name

This commit promotes a new environment variables called `TOX_ENVNAME` to
avoid any conflict.

[1]: https://github.com/ansible/molecule/blob/master/molecule/scenario.py#L182-L186
[2]: https://github.com/ansible/molecule/blob/master/molecule/config.py#L193

Signed-off-by: Gonéri Le Bouder <goneri@redhat.com>

doc/source/ci.rst, after:

Continuous integration
----------------------

Travis CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Travis`_ is a CI platform, which can be used to test Ansible roles.

A ``.travis.yml`` testing a role named foo1 with the Docker driver.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - pip install molecule
      # - pip install required driver (e.g. docker, python-vagrant, shade, boto, apache-libcloud)
    script:
      - molecule test

A ``.travis.yml`` using `Tox`_ as described below.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - pip install tox-travis
    script:
      - tox

Gitlab CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Gitlab`_ includes its own CI. Pipelines are usually defined in a ``.gitlab-ci.yml`` file in the top folder of a repository, to be ran on Gitlab Runners.

Here is an example setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule. User-level pip is cached and so is the virtual environment to save time. And this is run over a runner tagged `pip36` and `docker`, because its a minimal CentOS 7 VM installed with pip36 from IUS repository and docker.


.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    stages:
      - test

    variables:
      PIP_CACHE_DIR: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/.pip"

    cache:
      paths:
        - .pip/
        - virtenv/

    before_script:
      - pip3.6 install virtualenv
      - virtualenv virtenv
      - source virtenv/bin/activate

    molecule:
      stage: test
      tags:
        - pip36
        - docker
      script:
        - docker -v
        - python -V
        - pip install ansible molecule docker
        - ansible --version
        - molecule --version
        - molecule test

Jenkins Pipeline
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Jenkins`_ projects can also be defined in a file, by default named `Jenkinsfile` in the top folder of a repository. Two syntax are available, Declarative and Scripted. Here is an example using the declarative syntax, setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {

      agent {
        // Node setup : minimal centos7, plugged into Jenkins, and
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo yum -y install https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
        // sudo yum -y install python36u python36u-pip python36u-devel git curl gcc
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo curl -fsSL get.docker.com | bash
        label 'Molecule_Slave'
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Get latest code') {
          steps {
            checkout scm
          }
        }

        stage ('Setup Python virtual environment') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              export HTTP_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              export HTTPS_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              pip3.6 install virtualenv
              virtualenv virtenv
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              pip install --upgrade ansible molecule docker
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              molecule test
            '''
          }
        }

      }

    }



Tox
^^^

`Tox`_ is a generic virtualenv management, and test command line tool.  `Tox`_
can be used in conjunction with `Factors`_ and Molecule, to perform scenario
tests.

To test the role against multiple versions of Ansible.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 1.8
    envlist = py{27}-ansible{20,21,22}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    passenv = *
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible20: ansible==2.0.2.0
        ansible21: ansible==2.1.2.0
        ansible22: ansible==2.2.0.0
    commands =
        molecule test

To view the factor generated tox environments.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ tox -l
    py27-ansible20
    py27-ansible21
    py27-ansible22

If using the `--parallel functionality`_ of Tox (version 3.7 onwards), Molecule
must be made aware of the parallel testing by setting a
``MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`` environment variable per environment. In addition,
we export a ``TOX_ENVNAME`` environment variable, it's the name of our tox env.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 3.7
    envlist = py{27}_ansible{23,24}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible23: ansible==2.3
        ansible24: ansible==2.4
    commands =
        molecule test
    setenv =
        TOX_ENVNAME={envname}
        MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY=/tmp/{envname}

If you are utilizing the Openstack driver you will have to make sure that your
``envname`` variable does not contain any invalid characters, particularly
``-``.

You also must include the ``TOX_ENVNAME`` variable in name of each platform in
``molecule.yml`` configuration file. This way, ther names won't create any
conflict.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    dependency:
      name: galaxy
    driver:
      name: docker
    lint:
      name: yamllint
    platforms:
      - name: instance1-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: mariadb
      - name: instance2-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: retr0h/centos7-systemd-ansible:latest
        privileged: True
        command: /usr/sbin/init
    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      lint:
        name: ansible-lint
    scenario:
      name: default
    verifier:
      name: testinfra
      lint:
        name: flake8

.. _`Factors`: http://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#factors-and-factor-conditional-settings
.. _`Travis`: https://travis-ci.org/
.. _`Jenkins`: https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile
.. _`Gitlab`: https://gitlab.com
.. _`Tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _`--parallel functionality`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#cmdoption-tox-p
