doc/source/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

This document assumes the developer has a basic understanding of python
packaging, and how to install and manage python on the system executing
Molecule.

Requirements
============

Depending on the driver chosen, you may need to install additional OS packages.
See ``INSTALL.rst``, which is created when initializing a new scenario.

* Python 2.7 or Python >= 3.5 with :std:doc:`Ansible <ansible:index>` >= 2.5

CentOS 7
--------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo yum install -y epel-release
    $ sudo yum install -y gcc python-pip python-devel openssl-devel libselinux-python

Ubuntu 16.x
-----------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install -y python-pip libssl-dev

Pip
===

:std:doc:`pip <pip:usage>` is the only supported installation method.

Keep in mind that on selinux supporting systems, if you install into a virtual
environment, you may face :gh:`issue <ansible/ansible/issues/34340>` even
if selinux is not enabled or is configured to be permissive.

It is your reponsability to assure that soft dependencies of Ansible are
available on your controller or host machines.

Requirements
------------

Depending on the driver chosen, you may need to install additional python
packages.  See the driver's documentation or ``INSTALL.rst``, which is created
when initializing a new scenario.

Install
-------

Install Molecule:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install --user molecule

Installing molecule package also installed its main script ``molecule``,
usually in ``PATH``. Users should know that molecule can also be called as a
python module, using ``python -m molecule ...``. This alternative method has
some benefits:

* allows to explicitly control which python interpreter is used by molecule
* allows molecule installation at user level without even needing to have
  the script in ``PATH``.

Docker
======

We publish molecule images via `quay.io`_ where the following tags are available:

  * ``latest``: latest master branch build, which should be viewed as unstable
  * ``2.20``: Git based tags
  * ``2.20a1``: Pre-releases tags

Please see the `tags listing`_ for available tags.

Please see :ref:`docker-usage-example` for usage.

.. _`quay.io`: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule
.. _tags listing: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule?tab=tags

Source
======

Due to the rapid pace of development on this tool, you might want to install it
in "`development mode`_" so that new updates can be obtained by simply doing a
``git pull`` in the repository's directory.

Requirements
------------

CentOS 7
^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo yum install -y libffi-devel git

Ubuntu 16.x
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install -y libffi-dev git

Install
-------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd /path/to/molecule/checkout
    $ pip install -U -e .

.. _`development mode`: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#development-mode

Commit message:

Document pre-release installation
Something for https://github.com/ansible/molecule/issues/1757.

Signed-off-by: Luke Murphy <lukewm@riseup.net>

doc/source/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation:

************
Installation
************

This document assumes the developer has a basic understanding of python
packaging, and how to install and manage python on the system executing
Molecule.

Requirements
============

Depending on the driver chosen, you may need to install additional OS packages.
See ``INSTALL.rst``, which is created when initializing a new scenario.

* Python 2.7 or Python >= 3.5 with :std:doc:`Ansible <ansible:index>` >= 2.5

CentOS 7
--------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo yum install -y epel-release
    $ sudo yum install -y gcc python-pip python-devel openssl-devel libselinux-python

Ubuntu 16.x
-----------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get update
    $ sudo apt-get install -y python-pip libssl-dev

Pip
===

:std:doc:`pip <pip:usage>` is the only supported installation method.

Keep in mind that on selinux supporting systems, if you install into a virtual
environment, you may face :gh:`issue <ansible/ansible/issues/34340>` even
if selinux is not enabled or is configured to be permissive.

It is your reponsability to assure that soft dependencies of Ansible are
available on your controller or host machines.

Requirements
------------

Depending on the driver chosen, you may need to install additional python
packages.  See the driver's documentation or ``INSTALL.rst``, which is created
when initializing a new scenario.

Install
-------

Install Molecule:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ pip install --user molecule

Installing molecule package also installed its main script ``molecule``,
usually in ``PATH``. Users should know that molecule can also be called as a
python module, using ``python -m molecule ...``. This alternative method has
some benefits:

* allows to explicitly control which python interpreter is used by molecule
* allows molecule installation at user level without even needing to have
  the script in ``PATH``.

.. note::

    We also have a continuous pre-release process which is provided for early
    adoption and feedback purposes only. It is available from
    `test.pypi.org/project/molecule`_ and can be installed like so:

    .. code-block:: bash

        pip install \
          --index-url https://test.pypi.org/simple \
          --extra-index-url https://pypi.org/simple \
          molecule==2.20.0.0a3.dev11

    Where ``2.20.0.0a3.dev11`` is the latest available pre-release version.
    Please check the `release history`_ listing for the available releases.

    .. _test.pypi.org/project/molecule: https://test.pypi.org/project/molecule/
    .. _release history: https://test.pypi.org/project/molecule/#history

Docker
======

We publish molecule images via `quay.io`_ where the following tags are available:

  * ``latest``: latest master branch build, which should be viewed as unstable
  * ``2.20``: Git based tags
  * ``2.20a1``: Pre-releases tags

Please see the `tags listing`_ for available tags.

Please see :ref:`docker-usage-example` for usage.

.. _`quay.io`: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule
.. _tags listing: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule?tab=tags

Source
======

Due to the rapid pace of development on this tool, you might want to install it
in "`development mode`_" so that new updates can be obtained by simply doing a
``git pull`` in the repository's directory.

Requirements
------------

CentOS 7
^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo yum install -y libffi-devel git

Ubuntu 16.x
^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: bash

    $ sudo apt-get install -y libffi-dev git

Install
-------

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd /path/to/molecule/checkout
    $ pip install -U -e .

.. _`development mode`: https://setuptools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/setuptools.html#development-mode
