doc/source/porting.rst, before:

*************
Porting Guide
*************

Porting your existing role from Molecule to Molecule v2.  As of this writing
this is a manual process.

1. In the basedir of your existing role, create a new `default` scenario.  This
   scenario is equivalent to your existing Molecule v1 setup. 

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd $role-name
    $ molecule init scenario --role-name $role-name  --scenario-name default --driver-name $driver-name

2. Move existing Testinfra tests to the new scenario's test directory located
   at `molecule/default/tests/test_default.py`.

3. If necessary port existing Serverspec tests to Testinfra.  A Testinfra
   skeleton has been created at `molecule/default/tests/test_default.py`.

4. Port role's existing `molecule.yml` to the new format located in the
   scenario's directory at `molecule/default/molecule.yml`.

5. Port role's existing `playbook.yml` to the new location in the scenario's
   directory at `molecule/default/playbook.yml`.

6. Cleanup

.. code-block:: bash

    $ rm -rf .molecule/
    $ rm -rf molecule.yml
    $ rm -rf playbook.yml
    $ rm -rf tests/

6. Test

.. code-block:: bash

    $ molecule test

Commit message:

Added a dirty conversion script
This conversion script is quite dirty.  It converts molecule v1
vagrant driver config into a molecule v2 vagrant config.  Also,
handles the creation of the initial directory structure, migration
and cleanup of files.

doc/source/porting.rst, after:

*************
Porting Guide
*************

Porting your existing role from Molecule to Molecule v2.

Automatically
=============

Molecule ships with a conversion script.  This conversion script converts a
molecule v1 vagrant driver config into a molecule v2 vagrant config.  The
script handles the creation of the initial directory structure, migration and
cleanup of files.

.. note::

    The script is fairly crude, and only supports Vagrant at the time of this
    writing.  The authors will be adding additional functionality as additional
    roles are migrated to v2.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ contrib/convert.py /path/to/v1/role/molecule.yml

Manually
========

1. In the basedir of your existing role, create a new `default` scenario.  This
   scenario is equivalent to your existing Molecule v1 setup. 

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd $role-name
    $ molecule init scenario --role-name $role-name  --scenario-name default --driver-name $driver-name

2. Move existing Testinfra tests to the new scenario's test directory located
   at `molecule/default/tests/test_default.py`.

3. If necessary port existing Serverspec tests to Testinfra.  A Testinfra
   skeleton has been created at `molecule/default/tests/test_default.py`.

4. Port role's existing `molecule.yml` to the new format located in the
   scenario's directory at `molecule/default/molecule.yml`.

5. Port role's existing `playbook.yml` to the new location in the scenario's
   directory at `molecule/default/playbook.yml`.

6. Cleanup

.. code-block:: bash

    $ rm -rf .molecule/
    $ rm -rf molecule.yml
    $ rm -rf playbook.yml
    $ rm -rf tests/

6. Test

.. code-block:: bash

    $ molecule test
