.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
labels: bug
---
<!--- Verify first that your issue is not already reported on GitHub -->
<!--- Do not report bugs before reproducing them with the code of the master branch! -->
<!--- Please also check https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq.html --->
<!--- Please use https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/molecule-users for usage questions -->

# Issue Type

- Bug report

# Molecule and Ansible details

```
ansible --version && molecule --version
```

Molecule installation method (one of):

- source
- pip

Ansible installation method (one of):

- source
- pip
- OS package

Detail any linters or test runners used:

# Desired Behavior

Please give some details of the feature being requested or what
should happen if providing a bug report.

# Actual Behaviour

Please give some details of what is actually happening.
Include a [minimum complete verifiable example](https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve) with
output of running `molecule --debug`.

Commit message:

Improve new issue templates
Document correct place to raise issues related to use of various
drivers which are not included in core.

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Do NOT raise bugs unless you already tested code from master branch.
labels: bug
---
<!--- Verify first that your issue is not already reported on GitHub -->
<!--- Do not report bugs before reproducing them with the code of the master branch! -->
<!--- Please also check https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/faq.html --->
<!--- Please use https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/molecule-users for usage questions -->

# Issue Type

- Bug report

# Molecule and Ansible details

```
ansible --version && molecule --version
```

Molecule installation method (one of):

- source
- pip

Ansible installation method (one of):

- source
- pip
- OS package

Detail any linters or test runners used:

# Desired Behavior

Please give some details of the feature being requested or what
should happen if providing a bug report.

# Actual Behaviour

Please give some details of what is actually happening.
Include a [minimum complete verifiable example](https://stackoverflow.com/help/mcve) with
output of running `molecule --debug`.
