docs/ci.rst, before:

Continuous integration
----------------------

Molecule output will use ``ANSI`` colors if stdout is an interactive TTY and
``TERM`` value seems to support it. You can define ``PY_COLORS=1`` to force
use of ``ANSI`` colors, which can be handly for some CI systems.

Github Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`GitHub Actions`_ runs a CI pipeline,
much like any others, that's built into GitHub.


An action to clone a repo as ``molecule_demo``,
and run ``molecule test`` in ubuntu.

.. code-block:: yaml

  ---
  name: Molecule Test
  on: [push, commit]
  jobs:
    build:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      strategy:
        max-parallel: 4
        matrix:
          python-version: [3.6, 3.7]

      steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
          with:
            path: molecule_demo
        - name: Set up Python ${{ matrix.python-version }}
          uses: actions/setup-python@v1
          with:
            python-version: ${{ matrix.python-version }}
        - name: Install dependencies
          run: |
            sudo apt install docker
            python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
            python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
        - name: Test with molecule
          run: |
            molecule test

Travis CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Travis`_ is a CI platform, which can be used to test Ansible roles.

A ``.travis.yml`` testing a role named foo1 with the Docker driver.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - python3 -m pip install molecule
      # - python3 -m pip install required driver (e.g. docker, shade, boto, apache-libcloud)
    script:
      - molecule test

A ``.travis.yml`` using `Tox`_ as described below.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - python3 -m pip install tox-travis
    script:
      - tox

Gitlab CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Gitlab`_ includes its own CI. Pipelines are usually defined in a ``.gitlab-ci.yml`` file in the top folder of a repository, to be run on Gitlab Runners.

Here is an example using Docker in Docker

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    image: docker:latest

    services:
      - docker:dind

    before_script:
      - apk update && apk add --no-cache
        python3-dev py3-pip gcc git curl build-base
        autoconf automake py3-cryptography linux-headers
        musl-dev libffi-dev openssl-dev openssh
      - docker info
      - python3 --version
      - python3 -m pip install ansible molecule[docker]
      - ansible --version
      - molecule --version

    molecule:
      stage: test
      script:
        - cd roles/testrole && molecule test

GitLab Runner is used to run your jobs and send the results back to GitLab.
By tagging a Runner for the types of jobs it can handle,
you can make sure shared Runners will only run the jobs they are equipped to run.

Here is another example using Docker, virtualenv and tags on Centos 7.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    stages:
      - test

    variables:
      PIP_CACHE_DIR: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/.pip"
      GIT_STRATEGY: clone

    cache:
      paths:
        - .pip/
        - virtenv/

    before_script:
      - python -V
      - pip install virtualenv
      - virtualenv virtenv
      - source virtenv/bin/activate
      - pip install ansible molecule docker
      - ansible --version
      - molecule --version
      - docker --version

    molecule:
      stage: test
      tags:
        - molecule-jobs
    script:
      - molecule test

Jenkins Pipeline
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Jenkins`_ projects can also be defined in a file, by default named `Jenkinsfile` in the top folder of a repository. Two syntax are available, Declarative and Scripted. Here is an example using the declarative syntax, setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {

      agent {
        // Node setup : minimal centos7, plugged into Jenkins, and
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo yum -y install https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
        // sudo yum -y install python36u python36u-pip python36u-devel git curl gcc
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo curl -fsSL get.docker.com | bash
        label 'Molecule_Slave'
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Get latest code') {
          steps {
            checkout scm
          }
        }

        stage ('Setup Python virtual environment') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              export HTTP_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              export HTTPS_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              pip3.6 install virtualenv
              virtualenv virtenv
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              python3 -m pip install --upgrade ansible molecule docker
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              molecule test
            '''
          }
        }

      }

    }

The following `Jenkinsfile` uses the official 'quay.io/ansible/molecule' image.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {
      agent {
        docker {
          image 'quay.io/ansible/molecule'
          args '-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock'
        }
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh 'sudo molecule test --all'
          }
        }

      } // close stages
    }   // close pipeline

.. note::

    For Jenkins to work properly using a `Multibranch Pipeline` or a `GitHub Organisation` - as used by Blue Ocean, the
    role name in the scenario converge.yml should be changed to perform a lookup of the role root directory. For example :

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    - name: Converge
      hosts: all
      roles:
        - role: "{{ lookup('env', 'MOLECULE_PROJECT_DIRECTORY') | basename }}"


This is the cleaner of the current choices. See `issue1567_comment`_ for additional detail.

Tox
^^^

`Tox`_ is a generic virtualenv management, and test command line tool.  `Tox`_
can be used in conjunction with `Factors`_ and Molecule, to perform scenario
tests.

To test the role against multiple versions of Ansible.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 1.8
    envlist = py{27}-ansible{20,21,22}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    passenv = *
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible20: ansible==2.0.2.0
        ansible21: ansible==2.1.2.0
        ansible22: ansible==2.2.0.0
    commands =
        molecule test

To view the factor generated tox environments run `tox -l`.

If using the `--parallel functionality`_ of Tox (version 3.7 onwards), Molecule
must be made aware of the parallel testing by setting a
``MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`` environment variable per environment. In addition,
we export a ``TOX_ENVNAME`` environment variable, it's the name of our tox env.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 3.7
    envlist = py{36}_ansible{23,24}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible23: ansible==2.3
        ansible24: ansible==2.4
    commands =
        molecule test
    setenv =
        TOX_ENVNAME={envname}
        MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY=/tmp/{envname}


You also must include the ``TOX_ENVNAME`` variable in name of each platform in
``molecule.yml`` configuration file. This way, ther names won't create any
conflict.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    dependency:
      name: galaxy
    driver:
      name: docker
    platforms:
      - name: instance1-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: mariadb
      - name: instance2-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: retr0h/centos7-systemd-ansible:latest
        privileged: True
        command: /usr/sbin/init
    provisioner:
      name: ansible
    verifier:
      name: testinfra

.. _`GitHub Actions`: https://github.com/features/actions
.. _`Factors`: http://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#factors-and-factor-conditional-settings
.. _`Travis`: https://travis-ci.com/
.. _`Jenkins`: https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile
.. _`Gitlab`: https://gitlab.com
.. _`Tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _`--parallel functionality`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#cmdoption-tox-p
.. _`issue1567_comment`: https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule/issues/1567#issuecomment-436876722

Commit message:

How to deal with private repositories

docs/ci.rst, after:

Continuous integration
----------------------

Molecule output will use ``ANSI`` colors if stdout is an interactive TTY and
``TERM`` value seems to support it. You can define ``PY_COLORS=1`` to force
use of ``ANSI`` colors, which can be handly for some CI systems.

GitHub Actions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`GitHub Actions`_ runs a CI pipeline,
much like any others, that's built into GitHub.


An action to clone a repo as ``molecule_demo``,
and run ``molecule test`` in ubuntu.

.. code-block:: yaml

  ---
  name: Molecule Test
  on: [push, commit]
  jobs:
    build:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      strategy:
        max-parallel: 4
        matrix:
          python-version: [3.6, 3.7]

      steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
          with:
            path: molecule_demo
        - name: Set up Python ${{ matrix.python-version }}
          uses: actions/setup-python@v1
          with:
            python-version: ${{ matrix.python-version }}
        - name: Install dependencies
          run: |
            sudo apt install docker
            python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
            python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
        - name: Test with molecule
          run: |
            molecule test

If you need access to requirements in private repositories, `create a token`_
with the required privileges, then define a ``GIT_CREDENTIALS`` secret for 
your repository with a value looking like `https://username:token@github.com/`,
and finaly add the following step before `Test with molecule`

.. code-block:: yaml

        - name: Setup git credentials
          uses: fusion-engineering/setup-git-credentials@v2
          with:
            credentials: ${{secrets.GIT_CREDENTIALS}}

Travis CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Travis`_ is a CI platform, which can be used to test Ansible roles.

A ``.travis.yml`` testing a role named foo1 with the Docker driver.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - python3 -m pip install molecule
      # - python3 -m pip install required driver (e.g. docker, shade, boto, apache-libcloud)
    script:
      - molecule test

A ``.travis.yml`` using `Tox`_ as described below.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    sudo: required
    language: python
    services:
      - docker
    before_install:
      - sudo apt-get -qq update
    install:
      - python3 -m pip install tox-travis
    script:
      - tox

Gitlab CI
^^^^^^^^^

`Gitlab`_ includes its own CI. Pipelines are usually defined in a ``.gitlab-ci.yml`` file in the top folder of a repository, to be run on Gitlab Runners.

Here is an example using Docker in Docker

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    image: docker:latest

    services:
      - docker:dind

    before_script:
      - apk update && apk add --no-cache
        python3-dev py3-pip gcc git curl build-base
        autoconf automake py3-cryptography linux-headers
        musl-dev libffi-dev openssl-dev openssh
      - docker info
      - python3 --version
      - python3 -m pip install ansible molecule[docker]
      - ansible --version
      - molecule --version

    molecule:
      stage: test
      script:
        - cd roles/testrole && molecule test

GitLab Runner is used to run your jobs and send the results back to GitLab.
By tagging a Runner for the types of jobs it can handle,
you can make sure shared Runners will only run the jobs they are equipped to run.

Here is another example using Docker, virtualenv and tags on Centos 7.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    stages:
      - test

    variables:
      PIP_CACHE_DIR: "$CI_PROJECT_DIR/.pip"
      GIT_STRATEGY: clone

    cache:
      paths:
        - .pip/
        - virtenv/

    before_script:
      - python -V
      - pip install virtualenv
      - virtualenv virtenv
      - source virtenv/bin/activate
      - pip install ansible molecule docker
      - ansible --version
      - molecule --version
      - docker --version

    molecule:
      stage: test
      tags:
        - molecule-jobs
    script:
      - molecule test

Jenkins Pipeline
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`Jenkins`_ projects can also be defined in a file, by default named `Jenkinsfile` in the top folder of a repository. Two syntax are available, Declarative and Scripted. Here is an example using the declarative syntax, setting up a virtualenv and testing an Ansible role via Molecule.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {

      agent {
        // Node setup : minimal centos7, plugged into Jenkins, and
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo yum -y install https://centos7.iuscommunity.org/ius-release.rpm
        // sudo yum -y install python36u python36u-pip python36u-devel git curl gcc
        // git config --global http.sslVerify false
        // sudo curl -fsSL get.docker.com | bash
        label 'Molecule_Slave'
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Get latest code') {
          steps {
            checkout scm
          }
        }

        stage ('Setup Python virtual environment') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              export HTTP_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              export HTTPS_PROXY=http://10.123.123.123:8080
              pip3.6 install virtualenv
              virtualenv virtenv
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              python3 -m pip install --upgrade ansible molecule docker
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              source virtenv/bin/activate
              molecule test
            '''
          }
        }

      }

    }

The following `Jenkinsfile` uses the official 'quay.io/ansible/molecule' image.

.. code-block:: groovy

    pipeline {
      agent {
        docker {
          image 'quay.io/ansible/molecule'
          args '-v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock'
        }
      }

      stages {

        stage ('Display versions') {
          steps {
            sh '''
              docker -v
              python -V
              ansible --version
              molecule --version
            '''
          }
        }

        stage ('Molecule test') {
          steps {
            sh 'sudo molecule test --all'
          }
        }

      } // close stages
    }   // close pipeline

.. note::

    For Jenkins to work properly using a `Multibranch Pipeline` or a `GitHub Organisation` - as used by Blue Ocean, the
    role name in the scenario converge.yml should be changed to perform a lookup of the role root directory. For example :

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    - name: Converge
      hosts: all
      roles:
        - role: "{{ lookup('env', 'MOLECULE_PROJECT_DIRECTORY') | basename }}"


This is the cleaner of the current choices. See `issue1567_comment`_ for additional detail.

Tox
^^^

`Tox`_ is a generic virtualenv management, and test command line tool.  `Tox`_
can be used in conjunction with `Factors`_ and Molecule, to perform scenario
tests.

To test the role against multiple versions of Ansible.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 1.8
    envlist = py{27}-ansible{20,21,22}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    passenv = *
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible20: ansible==2.0.2.0
        ansible21: ansible==2.1.2.0
        ansible22: ansible==2.2.0.0
    commands =
        molecule test

To view the factor generated tox environments run `tox -l`.

If using the `--parallel functionality`_ of Tox (version 3.7 onwards), Molecule
must be made aware of the parallel testing by setting a
``MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY`` environment variable per environment. In addition,
we export a ``TOX_ENVNAME`` environment variable, it's the name of our tox env.

.. code-block:: ini

    [tox]
    minversion = 3.7
    envlist = py{36}_ansible{23,24}
    skipsdist = true

    [testenv]
    deps =
        -rrequirements.txt
        ansible23: ansible==2.3
        ansible24: ansible==2.4
    commands =
        molecule test
    setenv =
        TOX_ENVNAME={envname}
        MOLECULE_EPHEMERAL_DIRECTORY=/tmp/{envname}


You also must include the ``TOX_ENVNAME`` variable in name of each platform in
``molecule.yml`` configuration file. This way, ther names won't create any
conflict.

.. code-block:: yaml

    ---
    dependency:
      name: galaxy
    driver:
      name: docker
    platforms:
      - name: instance1-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: mariadb
      - name: instance2-$TOX_ENVNAME
        image: retr0h/centos7-systemd-ansible:latest
        privileged: True
        command: /usr/sbin/init
    provisioner:
      name: ansible
    verifier:
      name: testinfra

.. _`GitHub Actions`: https://github.com/features/actions
.. _`create a token`: https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line
.. _`Factors`: http://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#factors-and-factor-conditional-settings
.. _`Travis`: https://travis-ci.com/
.. _`Jenkins`: https://jenkins.io/doc/book/pipeline/jenkinsfile
.. _`Gitlab`: https://gitlab.com
.. _`Tox`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest
.. _`--parallel functionality`: https://tox.readthedocs.io/en/latest/config.html#cmdoption-tox-p
.. _`issue1567_comment`: https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule/issues/1567#issuecomment-436876722
