docs/examples.rst, before:

*************************
Common Molecule Use Cases
*************************

.. _docker-usage-example:

Docker
======

Molecule can be executed via an Alpine Linux container by leveraging dind
(Docker in Docker).  Currently, we only build images for the latest version
of Ansible and Molecule.  In the future we may break this out into Molecule/
Ansible versioned pairs.  The images are located on `quay.io`_.

To test a role, change directory into the role to test, and execute Molecule as
follows.

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --rm -it \
        -v "$(pwd)":/tmp/$(basename "${PWD}"):ro \
        -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
        -w /tmp/$(basename "${PWD}") \
        quay.io/ansible/molecule:2.20 \
        molecule test

.. _`quay.io`: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule

Docker With Non-Privileged User
===============================

The default Molecule Docker driver executes Ansible playbooks as the root user.
If your workflow requires a non-privileged user, then adapt ``molecule.yml``
and ``Dockerfile.j2`` as follows.

Append the following code block to the end of ``Dockerfile.j2``. It creates an ``ansible``
user with passwordless sudo privileges.

The variable ``SUDO_GROUP`` depends on the target distribution. ``centos:8`` uses ``wheel``.

.. code-block:: docker

    # Create `ansible` user with sudo permissions and membership in `DEPLOY_GROUP`
    ENV ANSIBLE_USER=ansible SUDO_GROUP=wheel DEPLOY_GROUP=deployer
    RUN set -xe \
      && groupadd -r ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && groupadd -r ${DEPLOY_GROUP} \
      && useradd -m -g ${ANSIBLE_USER} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && usermod -aG ${SUDO_GROUP} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && usermod -aG ${DEPLOY_GROUP} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && sed -i "/^%${SUDO_GROUP}/s/ALL\$/NOPASSWD:ALL/g" /etc/sudoers

Modify ``provisioner.inventory`` in ``molecule.yml`` as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        # …

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      # …
      inventory:
        host_vars:
          # setting for the platform instance named 'instance'
          instance:
            ansible_user: ansible

Make sure to use your **platform instance name**.  In this case ``instance``.

An example for a different platform instance name:

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: centos8
        image: centos:8
        # …

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      # …
      inventory:
        host_vars:
          # setting for the platform instance named 'centos9'
          centos9:
            ansible_user: ansible

To test it, add the following task to ``tasks/main.yml``. It fails, because the
non-privileged user is not allowed to create a folder in ``/opt/``.
This needs to be performed using ``sudo``.

To perform the task using ``sudo``, uncomment ``become: yes``.
Now the task will succeed.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create apps dir
      file:
        path: /opt/examples
        owner: ansible
        group: deployer
        mode: 0775
        state: directory
      # become: yes

Don't forget to run ``molecule destroy`` if image has already been created.

Systemd Container
=================

To start a service which requires systemd, `in a non-privileged container`_,
configure ``molecule.yml`` with a systemd compliant image, tmpfs, volumes,
and command as follows.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        tmpfs:
          - /run
          - /tmp
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

Note that centos:8 image contains a `seccomp security profile for Docker`_ which enables the use of systemd.
When needed, such security profiles can be reused (for example `the one available in Fedora`_):

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: debian:stretch
        command: /sbin/init
        security_opts:
          - seccomp=path/to/seccomp.json
        tmpfs:
          - /run
          - /tmp
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

The developer can also opt to `start the container with extended privileges`_,
by either giving it ``SYS_ADMIN`` capabilites or running it in ``privileged`` mode.

.. important::

    Use caution when using ``privileged`` mode or ``SYS_ADMIN``
    capabilities as it grants the container elevated access to the
    underlying system.

To limit the scope of the extended privileges, grant ``SYS_ADMIN``
capabilities along with the same image, command, and volumes as shown in the ``non-privileged`` example.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        capabilities:
          - SYS_ADMIN
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

To start the container in ``privileged`` mode, set the privileged flag along with the
same image and command as shown in the ``non-privileged`` example.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        privileged: True

.. _`seccomp security profile for Docker`: https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/
.. _`the one available in fedora`: https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/docker/raw/88fa030b904d7af200b150e10ea4a700f759cca4/f/seccomp.json
.. _`in a non-privileged container`: https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2016/09/13/running-systemd-in-a-non-privileged-container/
.. _`start the container with extended privileges`: https://blog.docker.com/2013/09/docker-can-now-run-within-docker/

Monolith Repo
=============

Molecule is generally used to test roles in isolation.  However, it can also
test roles from a monolith repo.

::

    $ tree monolith-repo -L 3 --prune
    monolith-repo
    ├── library
    │   └── foo.py
    ├── plugins
    │   └── filters
    │       └── foo.py
    └── roles
        ├── bar
        │   └── README.md
        ├── baz
        │   └── README.md
        └── foo
            └── README.md

The role initialized with Molecule (baz in this case) would simply reference
the dependant roles via it's ``converge.yml`` or meta dependencies.

Molecule can test complex scenarios leveraging this technique.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd monolith-repo/roles/baz
    $ molecule test

Molecule is simply setting the ``ANSIBLE_*`` environment variables.  To view the
environment variables set during a Molecule operation pass the ``--debug``
flag.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ molecule --debug test

    DEBUG: ANSIBLE ENVIRONMENT
    ---
    ANSIBLE_CONFIG: /private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/ansible.cfg
    ANSIBLE_FILTER_PLUGINS: /Users/jodewey/.pyenv/versions/2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages/molecule/provisioner/ansible/plugins/filters:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/plugins/filters:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/plugins/filters
    ANSIBLE_LIBRARY: /Users/jodewey/.pyenv/versions/2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages/molecule/provisioner/ansible/plugins/libraries:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/library:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/library
    ANSIBLE_ROLES_PATH: /private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/roles

Molecule can be customized any number of ways.  Updating the provisioner's env
section in ``molecule.yml`` to suit the needs of the developer and layout of the
project.

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      env:
        ANSIBLE_$VAR: $VALUE


Sharing Across Scenarios
========================

Playbooks and tests can be shared across scenarios.

::

    $ tree shared-tests
    shared-tests
    ├── molecule
    │   ├── centos
    │   │   └── molecule.yml
    │   ├── resources
    │   │   ├── playbooks
    │   │   │   ├── Dockerfile.j2 (optional)
    │   │   │   ├── create.yml
    │   │   │   ├── destroy.yml
    │   │   │   ├── converge.yml  # <-- previously called playbook.yml
    │   │   │   └── prepare.yml
    │   │   └── tests
    │   │       └── test_default.py
    │   ├── ubuntu
    │   │   └── molecule.yml
    │   └── ubuntu-upstart
    │       └── molecule.yml

Tests can be shared across scenarios.  In this example the `tests` directory
lives in a shared location and ``molecule.yml`` points to the shared tests.

.. code-block:: yaml

    verifier:
      name: testinfra
      directory: ../resources/tests/

.. _parallel-usage-example:

Running Molecule processes in parallel mode
===========================================

.. important::

    This functionality should be considered experimental. It is part of ongoing
    work towards enabling parallelizable functionality across all moving parts
    in the execution of the Molecule feature set.

.. note::

    Only the following sequences support parallelizable functionality:

      * ``check_sequence``: ``molecule check --parallel``
      * ``destroy_sequence``: ``molecule destroy --parallel``
      * ``test_sequence``: ``molecule test --parallel``

    It is currently only available for use with the Docker driver.

It is possible to run Molecule processes in parallel using another tool to
orchestrate the parallelization (such as `GNU Parallel`_ or `Pytest`_).

When Molecule receives the ``--parallel`` flag it will generate a `UUID`_ for
the duration of the testing sequence and will use that unique identifier to
cache the run-time state for that process. The parallel Molecule processes
cached state and created instances will therefore not interfere with each
other.

Molecule uses a new and separate caching folder for this in the
``$HOME/.cache/molecule_parallel`` location. Molecule exposes a new environment
variable ``MOLECULE_PARALLEL`` which can enable this functionality.

.. _GNU Parallel: https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/
.. _Pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/
.. _UUID: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier

Commit message:

Added second example for Sharing Across Scenarios

docs/examples.rst, after:

*************************
Common Molecule Use Cases
*************************

.. _docker-usage-example:

Docker
======

Molecule can be executed via an Alpine Linux container by leveraging dind
(Docker in Docker).  Currently, we only build images for the latest version
of Ansible and Molecule.  In the future we may break this out into Molecule/
Ansible versioned pairs.  The images are located on `quay.io`_.

To test a role, change directory into the role to test, and execute Molecule as
follows.

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run --rm -it \
        -v "$(pwd)":/tmp/$(basename "${PWD}"):ro \
        -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
        -w /tmp/$(basename "${PWD}") \
        quay.io/ansible/molecule:2.20 \
        molecule test

.. _`quay.io`: https://quay.io/repository/ansible/molecule

Docker With Non-Privileged User
===============================

The default Molecule Docker driver executes Ansible playbooks as the root user.
If your workflow requires a non-privileged user, then adapt ``molecule.yml``
and ``Dockerfile.j2`` as follows.

Append the following code block to the end of ``Dockerfile.j2``. It creates an ``ansible``
user with passwordless sudo privileges.

The variable ``SUDO_GROUP`` depends on the target distribution. ``centos:8`` uses ``wheel``.

.. code-block:: docker

    # Create `ansible` user with sudo permissions and membership in `DEPLOY_GROUP`
    ENV ANSIBLE_USER=ansible SUDO_GROUP=wheel DEPLOY_GROUP=deployer
    RUN set -xe \
      && groupadd -r ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && groupadd -r ${DEPLOY_GROUP} \
      && useradd -m -g ${ANSIBLE_USER} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && usermod -aG ${SUDO_GROUP} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && usermod -aG ${DEPLOY_GROUP} ${ANSIBLE_USER} \
      && sed -i "/^%${SUDO_GROUP}/s/ALL\$/NOPASSWD:ALL/g" /etc/sudoers

Modify ``provisioner.inventory`` in ``molecule.yml`` as follows:

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        # …

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      # …
      inventory:
        host_vars:
          # setting for the platform instance named 'instance'
          instance:
            ansible_user: ansible

Make sure to use your **platform instance name**.  In this case ``instance``.

An example for a different platform instance name:

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: centos8
        image: centos:8
        # …

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      # …
      inventory:
        host_vars:
          # setting for the platform instance named 'centos9'
          centos9:
            ansible_user: ansible

To test it, add the following task to ``tasks/main.yml``. It fails, because the
non-privileged user is not allowed to create a folder in ``/opt/``.
This needs to be performed using ``sudo``.

To perform the task using ``sudo``, uncomment ``become: yes``.
Now the task will succeed.

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Create apps dir
      file:
        path: /opt/examples
        owner: ansible
        group: deployer
        mode: 0775
        state: directory
      # become: yes

Don't forget to run ``molecule destroy`` if image has already been created.

Systemd Container
=================

To start a service which requires systemd, `in a non-privileged container`_,
configure ``molecule.yml`` with a systemd compliant image, tmpfs, volumes,
and command as follows.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        tmpfs:
          - /run
          - /tmp
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

Note that centos:8 image contains a `seccomp security profile for Docker`_ which enables the use of systemd.
When needed, such security profiles can be reused (for example `the one available in Fedora`_):

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: debian:stretch
        command: /sbin/init
        security_opts:
          - seccomp=path/to/seccomp.json
        tmpfs:
          - /run
          - /tmp
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

The developer can also opt to `start the container with extended privileges`_,
by either giving it ``SYS_ADMIN`` capabilites or running it in ``privileged`` mode.

.. important::

    Use caution when using ``privileged`` mode or ``SYS_ADMIN``
    capabilities as it grants the container elevated access to the
    underlying system.

To limit the scope of the extended privileges, grant ``SYS_ADMIN``
capabilities along with the same image, command, and volumes as shown in the ``non-privileged`` example.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        capabilities:
          - SYS_ADMIN
        volumes:
          - /sys/fs/cgroup:/sys/fs/cgroup:ro

To start the container in ``privileged`` mode, set the privileged flag along with the
same image and command as shown in the ``non-privileged`` example.

.. code-block:: yaml

    platforms:
      - name: instance
        image: centos:8
        command: /sbin/init
        privileged: True

.. _`seccomp security profile for Docker`: https://docs.docker.com/engine/security/seccomp/
.. _`the one available in fedora`: https://src.fedoraproject.org/rpms/docker/raw/88fa030b904d7af200b150e10ea4a700f759cca4/f/seccomp.json
.. _`in a non-privileged container`: https://developers.redhat.com/blog/2016/09/13/running-systemd-in-a-non-privileged-container/
.. _`start the container with extended privileges`: https://blog.docker.com/2013/09/docker-can-now-run-within-docker/

Monolith Repo
=============

Molecule is generally used to test roles in isolation.  However, it can also
test roles from a monolith repo.

::

    $ tree monolith-repo -L 3 --prune
    monolith-repo
    ├── library
    │   └── foo.py
    ├── plugins
    │   └── filters
    │       └── foo.py
    └── roles
        ├── bar
        │   └── README.md
        ├── baz
        │   └── README.md
        └── foo
            └── README.md

The role initialized with Molecule (baz in this case) would simply reference
the dependant roles via it's ``converge.yml`` or meta dependencies.

Molecule can test complex scenarios leveraging this technique.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd monolith-repo/roles/baz
    $ molecule test

Molecule is simply setting the ``ANSIBLE_*`` environment variables.  To view the
environment variables set during a Molecule operation pass the ``--debug``
flag.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ molecule --debug test

    DEBUG: ANSIBLE ENVIRONMENT
    ---
    ANSIBLE_CONFIG: /private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/ansible.cfg
    ANSIBLE_FILTER_PLUGINS: /Users/jodewey/.pyenv/versions/2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages/molecule/provisioner/ansible/plugins/filters:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/plugins/filters:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/plugins/filters
    ANSIBLE_LIBRARY: /Users/jodewey/.pyenv/versions/2.7.13/lib/python2.7/site-packages/molecule/provisioner/ansible/plugins/libraries:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/library:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/library
    ANSIBLE_ROLES_PATH: /private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles:/private/tmp/monolith-repo/roles/baz/molecule/default/.molecule/roles

Molecule can be customized any number of ways.  Updating the provisioner's env
section in ``molecule.yml`` to suit the needs of the developer and layout of the
project.

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      env:
        ANSIBLE_$VAR: $VALUE


Sharing Across Scenarios
========================

Playbooks and tests can be shared across scenarios.

::

    $ tree shared-tests
    shared-tests
    ├── molecule
    │   ├── centos
    │   │   └── molecule.yml
    │   ├── resources
    │   │   ├── playbooks
    │   │   │   ├── Dockerfile.j2 (optional)
    │   │   │   ├── create.yml
    │   │   │   ├── destroy.yml
    │   │   │   ├── converge.yml  # <-- previously called playbook.yml
    │   │   │   └── prepare.yml
    │   │   └── tests
    │   │       └── test_default.py
    │   ├── ubuntu
    │   │   └── molecule.yml
    │   └── ubuntu-upstart
    │       └── molecule.yml

Tests and playbooks can be shared across scenarios.

In this example the `tests` directory lives in a shared
location and ``molecule.yml`` points to the shared tests.

.. code-block:: yaml

    verifier:
      name: testinfra
      directory: ../resources/tests/

In this second example the actions `create`, `destroy`,
`converge` and `prepare` are loaded from a shared directory.

.. code-block:: yaml

    provisioner:
      name: ansible
      playbooks:
        create: ../resources/playbooks/create.yml
        destroy: ../resources/playbooks/destroy.yml
        converge: ../resources/playbooks/converge.yml
        prepare: ../resources/playbooks/prepare.yml

.. _parallel-usage-example:

Running Molecule processes in parallel mode
===========================================

.. important::

    This functionality should be considered experimental. It is part of ongoing
    work towards enabling parallelizable functionality across all moving parts
    in the execution of the Molecule feature set.

.. note::

    Only the following sequences support parallelizable functionality:

      * ``check_sequence``: ``molecule check --parallel``
      * ``destroy_sequence``: ``molecule destroy --parallel``
      * ``test_sequence``: ``molecule test --parallel``

    It is currently only available for use with the Docker driver.

It is possible to run Molecule processes in parallel using another tool to
orchestrate the parallelization (such as `GNU Parallel`_ or `Pytest`_).

When Molecule receives the ``--parallel`` flag it will generate a `UUID`_ for
the duration of the testing sequence and will use that unique identifier to
cache the run-time state for that process. The parallel Molecule processes
cached state and created instances will therefore not interfere with each
other.

Molecule uses a new and separate caching folder for this in the
``$HOME/.cache/molecule_parallel`` location. Molecule exposes a new environment
variable ``MOLECULE_PARALLEL`` which can enable this functionality.

.. _GNU Parallel: https://www.gnu.org/software/parallel/
.. _Pytest: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/
.. _UUID: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier
